DOCS-540: Refactor build a mock robot (#1759)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/tutorials/configure/build-a-mock-robot.md

Author: Done/done

These `fake` components interact with Viam like real hardware but do not physically exist.

## Set up a mock robot

You'll need the following hardware and software for this tutorial:

- A computer running Linux or macOS
- [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) or [Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

If you don't already have a Viam account, sign up for one on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Create a new robot in the organization and location of your choice.
Go to this robot's **Setup** tab.

### Install and start `viam-server` on your computer

Before you proceed with configuring and controlling your robot, install `viam-server`.
Follow the steps outlined for your computer's architecture on the **Setup** tab of the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) to [install `viam-server`](/installation/manage/) on your computer as a system service.

### Configure your mock robot

[Configure your mock robot](/manage/configuration/) to represent a physical smart machine with robotic board, arm, and motor hardware.

> If you were using physical hardware, this process would provide `viam-server` with the information what hardware is attached to it and how to communicate with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you were using physical hardware, this process would provide `viam-server` with information about what hardware is attached to it and how to communicate with it.
```

> If you were using physical hardware, this process would provide `viam-server` with the information what hardware is attached to it and how to communicate with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you were using physical hardware, this process would provide `viam-server` with information about what hardware is attached to it and how to communicate with it.
```

Author: Done, thank you!

For this robot, you configure `viam-server` to use `fake` components that emulate physical hardware.

1. Navigate to the **Config** tab of your mock robot's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
2. Configure a [fake board component](/components/board/fake/):

    - Click on the **Components** subtab and click **Create component**.
    - Select the `board` type, then select the `fake` model.
    - Enter the name `myBoard` for your board and click **Create**.

3. Configure a [fake arm component](/components/arm/fake/):

>     - Click **Create**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Click **Create component**.
```

Author: Done

cost: "0"
---

In this tutorial you will build a mock robot to learn how to configure robots with Viam.
You do not need any hardware to do this tutorial.

Follow this tutorial to set up and control a robot with a `fake` [arm](/components/arm/fake/), [board](/components/board/), and [motor](/components/motor/), and an additional mock {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="sub-part" >}} with a [motor](/components/motor/).
These `fake` components interact with Viam like real hardware but do not physically exist.

## Set up a mock robot

You'll need the following hardware and software for this tutorial:

- A computer running Linux or macOS
- [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) or [Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

> If you don't already have an account, create a free one.

Reviewer 2: A free what?

> If you don't already have an account, create a free one.
> Sign up on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).

Reviewer 2: I didn't really mean use the words quote on quote. In the first sentence you have no context for what account you're talking about.

```suggestion
If you don't already have a Viam account, sign up for one on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
```

cost: "0"
---

In this tutorial you will build a mock robot to learn how to configure robots with Viam.
You do not need any hardware to do this tutorial.

Follow this tutorial to set up and control a robot with a `fake` [arm](/components/arm/fake/), [board](/components/board/), and [motor](/components/motor/), and an additional mock {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="sub-part" >}} with a [motor](/components/motor/).
These `fake` components interact with Viam like real hardware but do not physically exist.

> ### What is a sub-part?

Reviewer 2: Should we wait with explaining a sub-part till we do that part? Also the fake component section - that explanation might work best when we are picking the model

Author: I'm fine with that, will move and comment here when done

Author: Moved! And moved out the fake component info. Would have added that to relevant section as well but it didn't add any new info, really, besides what we already had in there, so just deleting

> ### What is a mock sub-part?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### What is a sub-part?
```
This section explains what sub-parts are, not the "mock" aspect

Author: done!

- Typically, simple robots have just one part, but you can have as many parts as your project requires.
- Parts are organized in a tree, with one of them being the _main_ part, and the others being _sub-parts_.
- You can access any sub-part either directly, or through any part above it in the tree.
- Each part runs a single `viam-server` instance.

### What is a `fake` component?

Most Viam [components](../../../components/) have a `fake` model that you can use for testing.
These `fake` components interact with Viam like real hardware but do not actually exist.

## Set up a mock robot

You'll need the following hardware and software for this tutorial:

- A computer running Linux or macOS
- [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) or [Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

If you don't already have an account, create a free one.
Sign up on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Create a new robot in the organization and location of your choice.
Go to this robot's **Setup** tab.

### Install and start `viam-server` on your computer

Before you proceed with configuring and controlling your robot, install `viam-server`.

> Follow the steps outlined for your computer's architecture on the **Setup** tab of the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) to install `viam-server` on your computer as a system service.
> Find more information on running `viam-server` in the [installation guide](/installation/manage/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Follow the steps outlined for your computer's architecture on the **Setup** tab of the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) to [install `viam-server`](/installation/manage/) on your computer as a system service.
```
I think the extra sentence might make people go to that page - when they probably don't need to - I think slightly less likely like this

Author: Done, sounds good to me

### Configure your mock robot

[Configure your mock robot](/manage/configuration/) to represent a physical smart machine with robotic board, arm, and motor hardware.

> If you were using actual hardware, this process would provide `viam-server` with the information what hardware is attached to it and how to communicate with it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you were using physical hardware, this process would provide `viam-server` with the information what hardware is attached to it and how to communicate with it.
```
Just feel like "actual" sounds a bit judgmental - might be overreacting

Author: Fine with me!

For this robot, you configure `viam-server` to use `fake` components that emulate physical hardware:

1. Navigate to the **Config** tab of your mock robot's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
2. Configure a [fake board component](/components/board/fake/):

    - Click on the **Components** subtab and click **Create component**.
    - Select the `board` type, then select the `fake` model.

>     - Enter the name `myBoard` for your board and click **Create component**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Enter the name `myBoard` for your board and click **Create**.
```

3. Configure a [fake arm component](/components/arm/fake/):

>     - Click **Create component.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Click **Create**.
```

By utilizing {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="parts" >}}, you can expand upon this, chaining multiple computers together to build your robot with Viam:

- Each individual computer-controlled unit of a robot is called a “{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="part" >}}” in Viam.
- Typically, simple robots have just one part, but you can have as many parts as your project requires.
- Parts are organized in a tree, with one of them being the _main_ part, and the others being _sub-parts_.
- You can access any sub-part either directly, or through any part above it in the tree.
- Each part runs a single `viam-server` instance.

### What is a `fake` component?

Most Viam [components](../../../components/) have a `fake` model that you can use for testing.
These `fake` components interact with Viam like real hardware but do not actually exist.

## Set up a mock robot

You'll need the following hardware and software for this tutorial:

- A computer running Linux or macOS
- [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) or [Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

### Make an account on the Viam app

> First, set up your account on the Viam app.

Author: ```suggestion
If you don't already have an account, create a free one on the Viam app.
```

> Go to [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com) and sign up for an account.

Author: ```suggestion
Sign up for an account on [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
```

Create a new robot in the organization and location of your choice.
Go to this robot's **Setup** tab.

### Install and start `viam-server` on your computer

Before you proceed with configuring and controlling your robot, install `viam-server`.

Follow the steps outlined for your computer's architecture on the **Setup** tab of the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) to install `viam-server` on your computer as a system service.

Find more information on running `viam-server` in the [installation guide](/installation/manage/).

### Configure your mock robot

[Configure your mock robot](/manage/configuration/) to represent a physical smart machine with robotic board, arm, and motor hardware.

If you were using actual hardware, this process would provide `viam-server` with the information what hardware is attached to it and how to communicate with it.
For this robot, you configure `viam-server` to use `fake` components that emulate physical hardware:

1. Navigate to the **Config** tab of your mock robot's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
2. Configure a [fake board component](/components/board/fake/):

>     - Click on the Components subtab and click Create component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Click on the **Components** subtab and click **Create component**.
```

Author: Done/bolded all (I think)

    - Select the `board` type, then select the `fake` model.
    - Enter the name `myBoard` for your board and click **Create**.

3. Configure a [fake arm component](/components/arm/fake/):

>     - Click Create component.

Author: ```suggestion
    - Click **Create component.**
```

- Learn how to [configure](../../../manage/configuration/) robots with Viam.
- Try using [Viam](/viam/) without any robotic hardware.

Follow this tutorial to set up and control a robot with a `fake` [arm](/components/arm/fake/), [board](/components/board/), and [motor](/components/motor/), and an additional mock {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="sub-part" >}} with a [motor](/components/motor/).

> ### What is a mock sub-part?

Author: Moved this info up to the top vs in middle of page so users have this context immediately if they want to learn about it

By utilizing {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="parts" >}}, you can expand upon this, chaining multiple computers together to build your robot with Viam:

- Each individual computer-controlled unit of a robot is called a “{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="part" >}}” in Viam.
- Typically, simple robots have just one part, but you can have as many parts as your project requires.
- Parts are organized in a tree, with one of them being the _main_ part, and the others being _sub-parts_.
- You can access any sub-part either directly, or through any part above it in the tree.
- Each part runs a single `viam-server` instance.

### What is a `fake` component?

Most Viam [components](../../../components/) have a `fake` model that you can use for testing.
These `fake` components interact with Viam like real hardware but do not actually exist.

## Set up a mock robot

You'll need the following hardware and software for this tutorial:

> - A laptop or desktop running Linux or macOS

Author: ```suggestion
- A computer running Linux or macOS
```

> - [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) or [Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Reviewer: How about "A computer running Linux or macOS"? I fear that Windows users will otherwise waste their time here

> - [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) or [Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Author: @npentrel @JessamyT Should I keep laptop requirement in or not? Unsure if it should just be python/go, but removing code editor

> - [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) or [Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Reviewer 2: ok keep it as "a computer running Linux or macOS"

> - [Go](https://go.dev/doc/install) or [Python 3.9+](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

Author: done!

> - A code editor of your choice

Author: ```suggestion
```

> ### Make an account on the Viam app

Author: Done I think

First, set up your account on the Viam app.

> Go to [app.viam.com](https://app.viam.com) and sign up for an account.

Author: ```suggestion
Go to [app.viam.com](https://app.viam.com) and sign up for an account.
Create a new robot in the organization and location of your choice.
```

> ### Install and start `viam-server` on your computer

Author: oh yes!!! Very important, thank you. Added after line 59

Before you proceed with configuring and controlling your robot, install `viam-server`.

Follow the steps outlined for your computer's architecture on the **Setup** tab of the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com) to install `viam-server` on your computer as a system service.

Find more information on running `viam-server` in the [installation guide](/installation/manage/).

### Configure your mock robot

> Next, [configure your robot](/manage/configuration/) to represent your robot's hardware.

Author: Done

> If you were using actual hardware, this process would tell `viam-server` what hardware is attached to it and how to communicate with it.

Author: Done

> Since you don't have physical hardware, you will use `fake` components.

Author: Done, sounds good to me

1. Create a new [robot](/manage/fleet/robots/) in your organization and location on [app.viam.com](https://app.viam.com/).

> 2. Go to the new robot's **Config** tab.

Author: done!

3. Configure a [fake board component](/components/board/fake/):

    - Create a new component called `myBoard` with **Type** `board` and **Model** `fake`.

>     Click **Create component**.

Reviewer: I'm not touching this tutorial in the config UI ticket since I know it's being refactored here and don't want to make lots of merge conflicts, so mind updating these config instructions to reflect the updated UI as part of this PR?

Author: will do! Will comment here when done

Reviewer: Thank you!

Author: Done I think!

Most Viam [components](../../../components/) have a _fake_ model that you can use for testing.
These fake components interact with Viam like real hardware but do not actually exist.

> In this tutorial, you will set up, control, and program a [`fake` robotic arm](/components/arm/fake/), [board](/components/board/), and [motor](/components/motor/), and add an additional mock _sub-part_ with a [motor](/components/motor).

Author: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you will set up, control, and program a [`fake` robotic arm](/components/arm/fake/), [board](/components/board/), and [motor](/components/motor/), and add an additional mock _sub-part_ with a [motor](/components/motor/).
```

   Select `myBoard` from the **board** drop-down.

5. Click **Save config**.

You will need to reference the component names later when you connect to your mock robot with code.

## Control your mock robot using the Viam app

When you add components to your robot, the Viam app automatically generates a UI for them under the [**Control** tab](https://docs.viam.com/manage/fleet/robots/#control):

{{< imgproc src="/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/control-tab.png" alt="The Control tab with the fake arm, and motor components." resize="400x" >}}

You can use the **Control** tab UI to send commands to your robot.

For example, you can control the direction and speed of your motor, or change the joint positions of your robotic arm.
You can also see the robot's reported positions and speeds change.
With real physical components, you would not only be able to control and see your robot's readings on this tab, but you would also see your robot move in the physical world.

## Control your mock robot using a Viam SDK

### Install a Viam SDK

Install a Viam SDK (software development kit) so you can write custom logic to control the mock robot.

> Use which ever programming language you are most comfortable with.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use whichever programming language you are most comfortable with.
```
or
```suggestion
Use the programming language you are most comfortable with.
```

Author: done, thank you!

    ![A fake arm being configured in Builder mode in the Viam app config tab.](/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/create-arm.png)
    - Click **Save config**.

4. Configure a [fake motor component](../../../components/motor/fake/):

>    - Click Create component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   - Click **Create component**.
```

    ![A fake arm being configured in Builder mode in the Viam app config tab.](/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/create-arm.png)
    - Click **Save config**.

5. Configure a [fake motor component](../../../components/motor/fake/):

   - Create a new component called `myMotor` with **Type** `motor` and **Model** `fake`.
     Click **Create component**.
   - Most motors are wired to a board which sends them signals.
   Even though your motor is fake, make it more realistic by assigning it a `board`.
   Select `myBoard` from the **board** drop-down.

6. Click **Save config**.

You will need to reference the component names later when you connect to your mock robot with code.

## Control your mock robot using the Viam app

> When you add components to your robot, the Viam app automatically generates a UI for them under the **Control** tab:

Author: Done

> {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/control-tab.png" alt="Screenshot from the Viam app showing the Control tab with the fake arm, and motor components." resize="400x" >}}

Author: Done

You can use the **Control** tab UI to send commands to your robot.

For example, you can control the direction and speed of your motor, or change the joint positions of your robotic arm.
You can also see the robot's reported positions and speeds change.

> With real physical components, you would not only be able to control and see your robot's readings on this tab, but you would also see your robot move in the physical world.

Author: done

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> If you successfully configured your robot and it is able to connect to the Viam app you should see something like this, a list of the various _{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="resource" text="resources" >}}_ that have been configured on your robot in the Viam app:

Author: Done

![Command line output from running python3 index.py when your Raspberry Pi has correctly connected and initialized with the Viam app. The output is an array of resources that have been pulled from the Viam app. The list includes the motion service, arm component, data manager, board component and motor component. There is also a list of arm position and orientation values.](/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/resource-output.png)

### Control your mock robot

Now, write a program that moves the mock robotic arm to a new random position every second.

> At the top of your <file>index.py</file> file, paste the following:

Author: moved!

{{< /tabs >}}

Now when you run this code, you should see the new mock arm positions listed in the command line.

Verify that your mock robotic arm is working in the **Control** tab of the [Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
Watch the robotic arm's [`JointPositions()`](/components/arm/#jointpositions) changing in real-time along with the code on your development machine.

<div class="td-max-width-on-larger-screens">
  {{<gif webm_src="/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/joint-changes.webm" mp4_src="/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/joint-changes.mp4" alt="A terminal window with 'python3 index.py' being run, then a list of four values is printed each second to the terminal. On the left side is the mock arm from the Control tab of the Viam app. As the joint positions are updated in the terminal from the left, you can see that the joint positions are updated in realtime on the Viam app.">}}
</div>

## Configure your robot's mock sub-part

> Now that you have your `fake` robotic arm, board, and motor working, add a sub-part to your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you have your `fake` robotic arm, board, and motor working, add a `fake` motor sub-part to your robot.
Imagine for the purpose of this tutorial that the `fake` motor we are adding controls a conveyor belt in front of your mock arm on an assembly line.
```

Usually, when building a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="robot" text="robot" >}}, you pick out a [single-board computer](/components/board/) like the [Jetson Nano](/components/board/jetson/) or [Raspberry Pi](/components/board/pi/).
You follow the instructions in the **Setup** tab to install `viam-server` on your [board](/components/board/), and you start operating your robot with that computer, adding the [components](/components/) and [services](/services/) you want to use to that `viam-server` instance.

By utilizing {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="parts" >}}, you can expand upon this, chaining multiple computers together to build your robot with Viam:

- Each individual computer-controlled unit of a robot is called a “{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="part" >}}” in Viam.
- Typically, simple robots have just one part, but you can have as many parts as your project requires.
- Parts are organized in a tree, with one of them being the _main_ part, and the others being _sub-parts_.
- You can access any sub-part either directly, or through any part above it in the tree.
- Each part runs a single `viam-server` instance.

## Configure a sub-part in the Viam app

> Now, create a mock sub-part of another `fake` motor.

Reviewer 2: But the instruction for it is in 338 - so it's not now. I think this line should just go, it's a duplicate instruction otherwise.

```suggestion
```

> Imagine for the purpose of this tutorial that this motor controls a conveyor belt in front of your mock arm on an assembly line.

Reviewer 2: I think this sentence should be merged with line 314 instead - because it explains the idea of what they're doing to motivate folks to read and understand the concepts after

> Imagine for the purpose of this tutorial that this motor controls a conveyor belt in front of your mock arm on an assembly line.

Author: Ok, moving it up to line 314-- sounds good to me

</div>

## Configure your robot's mock sub-part

Now that you have your `fake` robotic arm, board, and motor working, add a `fake` motor sub-part to your robot.
Imagine for the purpose of this tutorial that the `fake` motor we are adding controls a conveyor belt in front of your mock arm on an assembly line.

### What is a sub-part?

Usually, when building a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="robot" text="robot" >}}, you pick out a [single-board computer](/components/board/) like the [Jetson Nano](/components/board/jetson/) or [Raspberry Pi](/components/board/pi/).
You follow the instructions in the **Setup** tab to install `viam-server` on your [board](/components/board/), and you start operating your robot with that computer, adding the [components](/components/) and [services](/services/) you want to use to that `viam-server` instance.

> By utilizing {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="parts" >}}, you can expand upon this, chaining multiple computers together to build your robot with Viam:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By utilizing {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="parts" >}}, you can expand upon this, chaining multiple computers together to build a complex robot with Viam:
```
[opt]

Author: LGTM done

- Each individual computer-controlled unit of a robot is called a “{{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="part" >}}” in Viam.
- Typically, simple robots have just one part, but you can have as many parts as your project requires.
- Parts are organized in a tree, with one of them being the _main_ part, and the others being _sub-parts_.
- You can access any sub-part either directly, or through any part above it in the tree.
- Each part runs a single `viam-server` instance.

### Add a new sub-part in the Viam app

On your robot's page on the Viam app, click on the dropdown next to the main part, name your part and click **Add new**.

![Screenshot of the Viam app with a dropdown below the main part. 'SubPart' is written in the textbox.](/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/part-menu.png)

> Navigate to your new sub-part's **Config** tab and create a new motor using the `fake` model.
> Name it `"motor2"`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to your new sub-part's **Config** tab and create a new motor:

Click **Create component** in the lower-left corner of the page.
Select type `motor` and model `fake`.
Enter `motor2` as the name and click **Create**.
```
[opt] Or some version of this... We spell it out for users in all other places, so I think we should here since this is an entry-level tutorial, but up to you.
Fixing the line below that says click **Create component** is important though.

Author: fine with me, done

{{< imgproc src="/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/sub-part-motor.png" alt="The config tab of the sub-part. A new fake motor component called motor2 is being created." resize="400x" >}}

> Click **Create component** and then **Save config**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click **Save config**.
```
Or "Click **Create**, then click **Save config**."
if you don't put **Create** in the step a few lines up.

Author: Done!!

> Now that you have your mock robotic arm working, add a mock sub-part to your robot.

Reviewer 2: This should mention the motor here as well because otherwise it's a bit like "ok but why?"

Author: done

> Now that you have your mock robotic arm working, add a mock sub-part to your robot.

Author: ```suggestion
Now that you have your `fake` robotic arm, board, and motor working, add a sub-part to your robot.
```

## Configure a sub-part in the Viam app

> Now, create a mock sub-part to control a motor.

Author: ```suggestion
Now, create a sub-part of a mock motor.
```

Imagine for the purpose of this tutorial that this motor controls a conveyor belt in front of your mock arm on an assembly line.

On your robot's page on the Viam app, click on the dropdown next to the main part, name your part and click **Add new**.

![Screenshot of the Viam app with a dropdown below the main part. 'SubPart' is written in the textbox.](/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/part-menu.png)

> Navigate to your new sub-part's **Config** tab and create a new motor using the `fake`` model.

Author: ```suggestion
Navigate to your new sub-part's **Config** tab and create a new motor using the `fake` model.
```

> Name it `"motor2"`.

Author: ```suggestion
Name it `motor2`.
```

> {{< imgproc src="/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/sub-part-motor.png" alt="The config tab of the sub-part. A new motor component called motor2 is being created." resize="400x" >}}

Author: ```suggestion
{{< imgproc src="/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/sub-part-motor.png" alt="The config tab of the sub-part. A new fake motor component called motor2 is being created." resize="400x" >}}
```

![Screenshot of the Viam app's Control tab for the main part that lists the main arm, and the sub part motor component.](/tutorials/build-a-mock-robot/control-all.png)

To test that your motor sub-part has been added to your robot, run your Python or Go script again.

> Review the output of `print(robot.resource_names)` to see your sub-part's motor's `name` listed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Review the output of your program that prints the robot's resources to see your sub-part's motor's `name` listed.
```

Author: Done

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

> Run this code to see your mock sub motor toggling between running and idle in real time from the Viam app!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run this code to see your mock sub-part's motor toggling between running and idle in real time from the Viam app!
```
I think "sub motor" isn't how we generally refer to it
